# Description

So far we have worked with simple substitution ciphers. They have also been ‘monoalphabetic’, meaning using a fixed key, and giving a one to one mapping of plaintext (P) to ciphertext (C). Another type of substitution cipher is referred to as ‘polyalphabetic’, where one character of P may map to many, or all, possible ciphertext characters.
An example of a polyalphabetic cipher is called a Vigenere Cipher. It works like this:
If we use the key(K) ‘GOLD’, and P = PROCEED MEETING AS AGREED, then “add” P to K, we get C. When adding, if we exceed 25, then we roll to 0 (modulo 26).
```
P P R O C E E D M E E T I N G A S A G R E E D\
K G O L D G O L D G O L D G O L D G O L D G O\
```
becomes:
```
P 15 17 14 2 4 4 3 12 4 4 19 8 13 6 0 18 0 6 17 4 4 3\
K 6 14 11 3 6 14 11 3 6 14 11 3 6 14 11 3 6 14 11 3 6 14\
C 21 5 25 5 10 18 14 15 10 18 4 11 19 20 11 21 6 20 2 8 10 17\
```
So, we get a ciphertext of:
```
VFZFK SOPKS ELTUL VGUCH KR
```
This level is a Vigenere Cipher. You have intercepted two longer, English language messages (American English). You also have a key piece of information. You know the key length!
For this exercise, the key length is 6. The password to level five is in the usual place, encrypted with the 6 letter key.

# Solution

- for this level, i used an online tool for decrypting Vigenere ciphers: https://www.dcode.fr/vigenere-cipher

- first of all, I need to find the key
- i can do this using the intercepted messages
- i copy them to the Vigenere Ciphertext box, then select the "knowing the key-length" option for decoding and choose the size of the  key: 6
- at this stage, i observed that the key-finding process was easier with a smaller ciphertext input
- after going through the list of possible keys generated by the site, i found the correct one: **`FREKEY`**

- for the ext stage, i enter the encrypted password for the next level in the Vigenere Ciphertext 
- this time i chose the "knowing the key" option and entered the key i found earlier
- this gave me the password for the next level: **CLEARTEXT**
